hinda Al HRI joins us on the line now
from Dar Al Bala in central Gaza where
as he was saying 100,000 people have
been displaced in the past 48 Hours tell
us the situation that those families are
facing now
hind well medam the situation is
devastating those families who were
forced to evacuate their houses and the
places they were in the eastern part of
did not even have the time or the space
to find another area to live in we're
seeing people scattered on the streets
on the sidewalks trying to protect their
families and their children now most of
those families were families who were
already displaced from different parts
of the CLE strip uh like the Northern
parts or ra orun due to the continuous
evacuation orders now these people do
not have any shelter some people are
also still trapped in the eastern part
of D because they were unable to
evacuate because the Israeli forces
artillery shelling and air strike
started shooting at those Palestinians
now we're talking about at least 100,000
citizens are displaced and not only
displaced they're homeless without any
shelters everywhere is crowded is a very
small City it's a couple of
neighborhoods only and we're talking
about more than a million according to
unaa of this size Palestinians now
makeshift camps are completely packed
with people even the beach people were
setting up their tents there un schools
are packed un facilities are packed and
also hospitals are packed with those
Palestinians some people unfortunately
did not even have a space to set up
their tents and there's an obvious state
of panic in fear of and frustration
among those families because they
believe that even if they evacuate to
the humanitarian Zone which is shrinking
with every evacuation order there's no
guarantee that they won't be targeted
and also let me add that there has been
new evacuations earlier today from Al
maazi uh from Al area and more parts
of
and and this is adding more misery to
the Palestinians the most um people who
are struggling are families with
children uh and and kids because they
could not protect uh their children even
not even able to find a tent or space
for a tent and not only that we're
talking about an area with Z resources
and they do not even have the bare
minimum of their needs and
requirements Gaza was already struggling
with starvation hunger malnutrition and
now the UN is saying that more than a
million people might not receive any
humanitarian food Aid this month what
could that mean for everyone but
particularly the vulnerable and
Children Well it obviously means that
people will not have food because people
completely rely on food distance from
humanitarian organizations and most of
these humanitarian organizations have
their warehouses in the danger zone and
they're unable to go and take that food
from those warehouses and also there has
been no safe access to those
humanitarian to go to such areas not
only that today earlier today a worker
humanitarian worker from the world
Central Kitchen was injured and this is
not the first time a humanitarian has
been injured or killed by the Israeli
forces during this this war now this
would complet completely affect families
and it's not only malnutrition and
starvation it's also the polio
that the World Health Organization is
trying to uh make a campaign to
vaccinate all of these children the
situation is very very devastating every
single hour and obviously Palestinians
are very eager and waiting for any life
of a Seas fire deal to end all of this
Devastation okay thank you very much
hind alri reporting to us from Dar Al
Bala in central
Gaza Maran we've spoken numerous times
about the the obstacles to reaching a
Seas fire but is the real sticking point
who gets to control Gaza at the end of
this well I think the main obstacle yes
in so many words it is uh
netanyahu's uh recent or latest
insistence of
maintaining Israeli military in Gaza
after the ceasefire if we could just
kind of reduce all the points that we've
been mentioning that would be it in the
end of May through July 2nd the
understanding was that there is this
three-phase ceasefire and there's this
exchange and and those guarantees and so
on so forth but essentially that Israel
would be leaving Gaza right but since
the invasion of Rafa in the southern
part of Gaza and the destruction of the
Rafa Crossing and the deployment of
Israeli troops in the Philadelphia
Corridor in the southern part of Gaza
and making some sort of a corridor in
the middle part of Gaza soal Narin now
Netanyahu says no I'm not going to give
up all these points I'm going to
maintain them which is
inconsistent with Biden's uh original
proposal it's consistent with the
understandings with the mediator and so
on so forth some in the United States of
the likes of blinkin are sneakily trying
to make this a kind of a bridging
proposal inserting netanyahu's uh most
recent demands that's not going to work
Hamas the Palestinians and even the
mediators are not going to accept Israel
to directly
reoccupy Gaz
by having troops deployed in various
parts of
it but of course as we have seen through
the course of this war and before
actually I suppose since the the The
Siege imposed on Gaza since 2007 now the
Israeli Army has deepened its control of
Gaza and that's what is going on today
in terms of the bargaining chip right
the infamous uh term using uh civilians
as human shield that's exactly what
Israel is doing today I mean everything
that it accuses Hamas of it's doing
today and worse it's actually killing
dozens upon dozens of people every day
causing harm tormenting torturing
terrorizing the population each and
every day in order to extract
concessions from Hamas this is by
definition terrorism right by definition
using civilians harming them threatening
to harm them for political ends this is
Terrorism Israel is practicing State
terrorism against the Palestinians in
order to get some get some concessions
from Hamas and from the mediators it's
not working it has not worked but it
maintains that because it thinks time is
on its side unfortunately for all of us
including for
Israelis most of whom do support the
original deal this could actually now
turn into a wider War we are at a
faithful
Crossroad either we turn to a ceasefire
in the next few
days that opens the way for a number of
scenarios including the implementation
of three phases and eventually if the
Americans get their way some kind of a
normalization some sort of a stability
like it or hate it but there is some
kind of a program otherwise we can have
a wide Regional War right we will have a
more escalation of violence in Gaza on
the on Lebanon and potentially
throughout the region because Israel
does not have an alternative strategy
there is no exit plan for Israel for
naano in Gaza everything has been said
is humbur there is no exit plan because
imagine past next week that there is no
ceasefire then what it could only be
escalation of war and regionalization of
war and implicating at the United States
of War which absolutely is by definition
a threat to International Peace and
security this is the crossroad we're at
and there's this is a this is the choice
time do the Israelis choose and the
Americans choose
ceasefire and Paving way for some kind
of RIS fight and eventually perhaps
stability or
arag and Maran just briefly is uh is
Washington harming The Diplomatic
process well Washington certainly by
providing Israel $20 billion of arms in
advance it's exactly like uh a drug
dealer uh providing drugs to a drug
addict hoping things will get
better Israel is addicted to violence
it's addicted to occupation it's
addicted to colonialization it's
addicted to killing and destuction in
Gaza and the rest of Palestine providing
them with 20 billions of dollars as we
having negotiation under way is the
worst way to approach the state but the
United States does not exactly very
smart about this right the special
relationship is very weird it's
almost you know masochistic from on the
the American side instead of making it
conditional that we will provide you
arms if you do 1 2 3 4 they provide the
arms in advance and then there start
pleading with the Israelis they start
being humiliated by the Israelis this is
of course a subject for another day this
very misunderstood so-called special
relationship between the United States
and Israel but be that as it may Biden
has acted foolishly he has acted
shortsightedly and secretary blinkin in
a sneaky kind of way has been selling
the Israeli plan uh as if it was the
solution we are stuck with that
unfortunately there is no other sponsor
of a diplomatic process but the
Americans okay well thank you for now
aler senior political analyst Moran
Bashar is speaking to us
we make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer